+++
title = "Comparing the estimation properties of different statistics for measuring sexual isolation from mating frequencies"
date = "2005-06-24"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Pérez-Figueroa, A.**","Caballero, A.","Rolán-Alvarez, E."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Biological Journal of the Linnean Society*, 85, 307-318"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Sexual isolation is a key component of reproductive isolation, involving mate choice among mature adults. While there are various statistics for estimating sexual isolation from mating frequencies, their ability to produce unbiased estimates varies considerably, depending on the particular situation. We investigated, under different biological scenarios, the estimation properties (statistical bias, efficiency, root mean square, statistical test) of 12 statistics commonly used in the literature for measuring sexual isolation. Yule's Q, V, YA (and related indices) and IPSI are revealed to be the most efficient, with the smallest biases and root mean square deviations. Yule's Q, YA and IPSI show better estimation properties when using infinite sample sizes, while IPSI is preferable using smaller sample sizes. Other statistics investigated should be avoided, at least within the range of conditions considered. Regarding the parametric test of hypothesis, the best alternative is YA. We discuss the advantages and drawbacks of the various estimators, and propose IPSI as the safest for biological sample sizes."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://academic.oup.com/biolinnean/article-pdf/85/3/307/14068935/j.1095-8312.2005.00491.x.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = "https://academic.oup.com/biolinnean/article/85/3/307/2691554"
url_custom = [{name = "DOI:10.1111/j.1095-8312.2005.00491.x", url = "https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1095-8312.2005.00491.x"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++


