+++
title = "Population genomics of parallel evolution in gene expression and gene sequence during ecological adaptation"
date = "2018-11-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Rivas, M.J.","Saura, M.","**Pérez-Figueroa, A.**","Panova, M.","Johansson, T.","André, C.","Caballero, A.","Rolán-Alvarez, E.","Johannesson, K.", "Quesada, H."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Scientific Reports*, 8:16147"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Natural selection often produces parallel phenotypic changes in response to a similar adaptive challenge. However, the extent to which parallel gene expression differences and genomic divergence underlie parallel phenotypic traits and whether they are decoupled or not remains largely unexplored. We performed a population genomic study of parallel ecological adaptation among replicate ecotype pairs of the rough periwinkle (*Littorina saxatilis*) at a regional geographical scale (NW Spain). We show that genomic changes underlying parallel phenotypic divergence followed a complex pattern of both repeatable differences and of differences unique to specific ecotype pairs, in which parallel changes in expression or sequence are restricted to a limited set of genes. Yet, the majority of divergent genes were divergent either for gene expression or coding sequence, but not for both simultaneously. Overall, our findings suggest that divergent selection significantly contributed to the process of parallel molecular differentiation among ecotype pairs, and that changes in expression and gene sequence underlying phenotypic divergence could, at least to a certain extent, be considered decoupled processes."
abstract_short = "we combine genome-wide evolutionary analyses of coding sequences and gene expression data using microarrays for investigating the molecular basis of adaptive divergence, employing *L. saxatilis* ecotypes from NW Spain as a model system. In this region, a large “crab ecotype” and a smaller “wave ecotype” have evolved repeatedly in response to crab predation and wave exposure respectively. The recent origin of these ecotypes (<10,000 years) is expected to be associated with high levels of shared genetic constraints and standing variation that would facilitate a rapid and more pervasive repeated evolution. Our objectives were i) assess to what extent expression and sequence differences between ecotypes affect the same genes, ii) determine the level of correspondence between gene expression divergence and coding sequence divergence, and iii) quantify how natural selection may affect repeatability. Our results stress the important contribution that both gene regulation and coding regions can make to rapid phenotypic evolution and adaptation"

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://rdcu.be/bavP6"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-018-33897-8"
url_custom = [{name = "DOI:10.1038/s41598-018-33897-8", url = "https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-33897-8"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++



