+++
title = "RNA-seq coupled to proteomic analysis reveals high sperm proteome variation between two closely related marine mussel species"
date = "2018-09-04"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Romero, M.R.","**Pérez-Figueroa, A.**","Carrera, M.","Swanson, W.J.","Skibinski, D.O.F.","Diz, A.P."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Journal of Proteomics*, In Press"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Speciation mechanisms in marine organisms have attracted great interest because of the apparent lack of substantial barriers to genetic exchange in marine ecosystems. Marine mussels of the *Mytilus edulis* species complex provide a good model to study mechanisms underlying species formation. They hybridise extensively at many localities and both pre- and postzygotic isolating mechanisms may be operating. Mussels have external fertilisation and sperm cells should show specific adaptations for survival and successful fertilisation. Sperm thus represent key targets in investigations of the molecular mechanisms underlying reproductive isolation. We undertook a deep transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) of mature male gonads and a 2DE/MS-based proteome analysis of sperm from *Mytilus edulis* and *M. galloprovincialis* raised in a common environment. We provide evidence of extensive expression differences between the two mussel species, and general agreement between the transcriptomic and proteomic results in the direction of expression differences between species. Differential expression is marked for mitochondrial genes and for those involved in spermatogenesis, sperm motility, sperm-egg interactions, the acrosome reaction, sperm capacitation, ATP reserves and ROS production. Proteins and their corresponding genes might thus be good targets in further genomic analysis of reproductive barriers between these closely related species."
abstract_short = "Mytilus spp. are valuable in reproductive isolation and speciation studies. Gametes are key cell targets in investigations of speciation mechanisms. Mytilus spp. show proteome and transcriptome differences in male gonads and sperm. Identified proteins are involved in sperm motility and sperm-egg interactions. Joint proteomic and RNA-seq analysis provide candidate proteins for evolution studies."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1874391918303397/pdf?md5=f0bbe1f1830955dacebdaed3aab3d293&pid=1-s2.0-S1874391918303397-main.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1874391918303397"
url_custom = [{name = "DOI:10.1016/j.jprot.2018.08.020", url = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jprot.2018.08.020"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++


