+++
title = "Metapop2: re‐implementation of software for the analysis and management of subdivided populations using gene and allelic diversity"
date = "2019-04-02"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["López-Cortegano, E.","**Pérez-Figueroa, A.**","Caballero, A."]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Molecular Ecology Resources*, (accepted)"
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Management programs often have to make decisions based on the analysis of the genetic properties and diversity of populations. Expected heterozygosity (or gene diversity) and population structure parameters are often used to make recommendations for conservation, such as avoidance of inbreeding or migration across subpopulations. Allelic diversity, however, can also provide complementary and useful information for conservation programs, as it is highly sensitive to population bottlenecks, and is more related to long‐term selection response than heterozygosity. Here we present a completely revised and updated re‐implementation of the software Metapop for the analysis of diversity in subdivided populations, as well as a tool for the management and dynamic estimation of optimal contributions in conservation programs. This new update includes computation of allelic diversity for population analysis and management, as well as a simulation mode to forecast the consequences of taking different management strategies over time. Furthermore, the new implementation in C++ includes code optimization and improved memory usage, allowing for fast analysis of large datasets including SNP markers, as well as enhanced cross‐software and cross‐platform compatibility."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/1755-0998.13015"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = "https://gitlab.com/elcortegano/metapop2"
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = "https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/1755-0998.13015"
url_custom = [{name = "DOI:10.1111/1755-0998.13015", url = "https://doi.org/10.1111/1755-0998.13015"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++


